The workflow canvas page can be access on the workflow tab. The workflow tab shows a list of workflows created by the user, and its workflow name. Workflows can be deleted, published or unpublished. A workflow can be renamed. Users can click Add workflow button to start creating a new workflow. They will be directed to the workflow canvas page

The workflow canvas page allows me to build a document processing workflow by placing down nodes and linking them together. Each node takes an expected input and produces and output. Some nodes also provide services to users (document folder node, reconciliation node, extraction node). Nodes can be branched out and branched back in. Each node will run for each document that passes through it. When a node branches out, (e.g. 1 node connecting out to 2 nodes), the node will send the same information out. Thus it is expected to get duplicates since both nodes have to receive the information. 2 nodes can also connect back to one node. But in this case it just passes documents back to it.

Users can drag around the screen by holding down left click and dragging their mouse. They can re-center their view which pivots them back to 0,0 (if no nodes exists) or the position of the oldest placed node. They can zoom in and out by using scroll wheel or if they use mouse pad pinch out and pinch in.

Users can add a node by going to the top right of the canvas where we place a + icon. When they press the + icon, a right sidebar expands showing a list of nodes. Users can also search by node name. When they click on a node is placed on the canvas by default at the center of the current user’s view. We adopt an anti-collision strategy when placing nodes, going rightwards and upwards until we find a space.

Visually, a node on canvas looks like a square with an icon representing the node, the node name, a connecting in point on the left, a connecting out point on its right to drag a link out, and 1 branch sticking out on its right with a small plus icon  at its end to select and add a node and have it linked directly. 

Nodes can be linked by holding left click on the connecting out point and dragging the mouse out which will show an arrow coming out of node to where the mouse is. Do note that this does not move the node. To connect, the user has to position the mouse on another node and let go of left click at the connecting in point. The arrow will then connect to the node on its left. Do have some buffer so that user can easily place an arrow to a connecting in point.

A node can have multiple connecting out and connecting in points.

A node can be repositioned on the canvas by holding down on the node which activates the node and dragging it to another position. A node can be renamed by double clicking on it which opens the node menu. Different node might have different node menu but in general it shows the node name which can be renamed, what was the input and output for a node during an execution. More on the details of node menu later. By holding shift and dragging on canvas, a selection box can be drawn to multiselect to activate nodes on canvas to reposition. User can also shift click nodes which makes the clicked nodes active. These nodes deactivate when user clicks on a non-active node without shift clicking or clicking on a blank space on the canvas. Thus, only activated nodes can be repositioned

Before we go into node menu, lets talk about the different nodes.